---
title:  "Returning from ISMB25"
date:   2025-07-28 09:01:13 +2
---

Last Friday the [ISMB25](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/home) in
Liverpool wrapped up like it had started, with one of the [Chemistry
Nobel laureates
2024](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/chemistry/2024/press-release/)
speaking. On the first day, [John
Jumper](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/chemistry/2024/jumper/facts/)
had given a talk on [AlphaFold](https://alphafold.ebi.ac.uk/), on the
last day [David
Baker](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/chemistry/2024/baker/facts/)
told the attendees from his home in Seattle over video how to get
things done - don't travel.

When asked about their favorite part of the conference,
Beatriz, Ivan, and Bernhard answered:

*Beatriz*: With over two thousand participants, the ISMB/ECCB 2025
conference was definitely a showcase of all the current trends in the
bioinformatics world. My favorite part of attending these large events
is the ability to talk and interact with so many people from different
fields. To see the current advances in so many fields. The perfect
opportunity to develop your ideas and to also think about your own
projects.

*Ivan*: A big conference means a large and wide sample of scientific
topics. It was an opportunity to expose myself to the trends of
contemporary bioinformatics and get some broad context for our group's
research. Of course, 80% of presentations were about AI and machine
learning, but aside from that, I heard a lot of interesing and
thought-provoking talks concerning community efforts in healthcare and
research. I was also eagerly looking forward to hearing about antigen
and antibody design and was not disappointed. Finally, I'd like to
note positively the format of the poster sessions: at long last I've
seen a conference where the same posters were around for 2 days, not 2
hours. This allowed me to see everything at my own pace.

*Bernhard*: There were so many great talks and illuminating moments,
it's hard for me to pick a particular one. But if I have to, it was
when one of the speakers mentioned in an aside the [WHO bacterial
priority pathogens
list](https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240093461). We'd
been looking for an up to date list of microbes to concentrate our
marker discovery efforts on - and there it was, right in front of our
eyes.
